---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: Benefits of Peyow Aqua Pilates
datePublished: '2016-03-18T02:41:39.339Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-18T02:41:19.174Z'
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-18-5bc664aa-96b8-4255-90ed-d63feb435360.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: 5bc664aa-96b8-4255-90ed-d63feb435360/index.html
_type: Article

---
Benefits of Peyow Aqua Pilates

* Breath & Posture correct alignment and breathing releases tension, and increases lung capacity
* Stability & Balance learn to balance against water's forces in a safe environment, for fall prevention
* Flexibility increase range of motion with Pilates stretches. Men can specifically benefit in this area with the buoyancy assisted stretches.
* Core Strength all exercises are core-centric and strengthen muscles of the back and abdominals
* Recuperate from injury or post-rehab.
* Low impact the spine and joints are unloaded in the water, making movements non-compressive
* All levels of fitness, the intensity is individual. Suitable for special conditions such as Arthritis, Parkinson's, Fibromyalgia, Stroke, Cardiac, Obesity, and PTSD.
* Case Studies show effectiveness in increasing dynamic stability and core strength within participants with disabilities.

Joseph Pilates original principals and exercises are adapted for the water. "Peyow" (pee-yow') is the Chinese Mandarin word for float, "

Floating Pilates.

Anne Pringle Burnell, creator of the Peyow(tm) Aqua Pilates program produced the Peyow(tm) Aqua Pilates DVD, and the Instructor Manual.  

The Peyow(tm) Aqua Pilates workout facilitates increased flexibility while challenging the individual to maintain core stabilization, balance, and postural alignment in the healing environment of water.  Pilates enthusiasts who practice traditional Pilates may want to add the element of water for a greater challenge to stability.  It is a great alternative for those who have limitations in the Pilates mat workout, which is gravity based (body weight) or do not have access to the resistance machines of traditional Pilates.  Beginning Pilates students, especially those who love aquatics, could benefit greatly from adding some of these core strengthening and stretching exercises to their routine.  

Peyow(tm) Aqua Pilates was developed at the 5 Star Peninsula Hotel Chicago by Anne Pringle Burnell, and is accredited continuing education by the Aquatic Therapy & Rehab Institute, Aquatic Exercise Association, American Council on Exercise, Aerobics & Fitness Association of America. 

.